What would you say
is your greatest desire in life?
If the psalmist who wrote Psalm 146
had been asked that question,
he probably would have answered
with the words in the opening verses:
“Praise Jah!
Let my whole being praise Jehovah.
I will praise Jehovah all my life.”
Is it not also our greatest desire
to praise Jehovah forever
and to teach others
how they can worship him along with us?
Those sentiments are nicely expressed
in our original song entitled
“All I Can Give.”
Listen to a reciting of the opening words
as we watch a portion of the music video.
O heavenly Father,
I want to give all I can give.
My desire is to please you
and love you as long as I live.
I’ll help those who listen
to find in your Word what they need.
To preach and to teach
is the way I can really succeed.
As I praise you, Jehovah,
my faith’s getting stronger each day.
I’ll reflect on my dedication.
I’ll walk in your way.
Be glad that I did not try
to sing those words to you.
It is true that our faith
gets stronger each day
that we praise Jehovah.
But what of those who do not know him
or who lack faith in him?
As we study the Bible with them,
we want to help them to find in God’s Word
what they need
to worship Jehovah with strong faith.
How can we do that?
Well, faith is based on evidence.
So to have faith, a person must first acquire
an accurate knowledge of Bible truth
on which they can build their faith.
And a good place to start
is with Jesus’ words at John 17:3,
which we know very well.
In prayer to Jehovah, he said:
“This means everlasting life,
“their coming to know you, the only true God,
and the one whom you sent, Jesus Christ.”
Now, what is Jesus saying?
Well, that to gain everlasting life,
people need to develop
a personal relationship with Jehovah,
and that requires learning the truth
about both God and Christ.
What does that require of us
as Bible teachers?
Three things.
First, we have to clear up
any confusion in people’s minds
about the identities of God and Christ.
And two scriptures that we can use
are Jeremiah 10:10 and Matthew 16:16
—Jeremiah 10:10 and Matthew 16:16.
Jeremiah 10:10 says:
“But Jehovah is truly God.
He is the living God.”
And at Matthew 16:16, it reports:
“Simon Peter answered:
‘You are the Christ,
the Son of the living God.’”
So Jehovah is the living God,
and Jesus is the Son of the living God.
What could be clearer than that?
And yet,
simply acknowledging these basic facts
is not enough.
So then second,
we need to help Bible students
build strong faith in Jehovah.
As we learned
in the first talk of this convention,
having faith involves
coming to know Jehovah
as a real Person
—trusting in him and forming
an unbreakable friendship with him.
This involves learning
what Jehovah likes and dislikes
and knowing his values and standards.
Then the student can do what God’s Son said,
as recorded at John 14:1:
“Exercise faith in God.”
But then Jesus added:
“Exercise faith also in me.”
So third,
we want to help Bible students
build strong faith in Jesus.
What especially do they need
to believe about Jesus?
Well, we can let the apostle Paul answer,
as stated at Ephesians 1:7.
Ephesians 1:7
—he wrote:
“By means of him
we have the release by ransom
“through the blood of that one,
“yes, the forgiveness of our trespasses,
according to the riches
of his undeserved kindness.”
When a person learns that Jesus
gave his life for him personally,
then he can begin to exercise faith
in the power of the ransom
—that it is the basis
for forgiveness of one’s sins,
that it offers the hope of everlasting life
under Christ’s Kingdom,
and that it is the greatest proof
of God’s love for us.
People need to accept the whole truth
about both Jehovah God and Jesus Christ.
But still, that is not enough,
for at Romans 10:10,
the Bible says:
“With the heart one exercises faith.”
A person must not only believe the truth
but must also value it,
because only then will he be motivated
to act in harmony with the truth.
Otherwise,
he could reject convincing evidence
of the truthfulness of what he is learning
and continue to hold on
to false beliefs and wrong practices.
So we must do all we can
to reach the student’s heart
as we conduct Bible studies.
Now, does this seem
like a daunting task for you?
Well, we have been given
a wonderful new tool
with which to build heartfelt faith,
the study book
Enjoy Life Forever!
—An Interactive Bible Course.
It uses key scriptures, clear reasoning,
effective questions, beautiful artwork,
and stirring videos
to help the teacher
reach the heart of the student
and draw out what he truly believes.
If you have the book
or if you have it in your JW Library® app
on your phone or tablet,
please open it now to section 1—section 1.
And look at the lessons in that section
that progressively build faith in Jehovah.
In lesson 4, the student learns
who the only true God is
and that his name is Jehovah.
Lesson 5 builds faith
that Jehovah really is
the Author of the Bible.
Lesson 6 reveals
that Jehovah is the Creator of the universe
and the Source of all life.
Lesson 7 explains what Jehovah is like,
that he is a real person
with many appealing qualities.
And lessons 8 and 9 show how the student
can become God’s friend
and draw close to him.
Some people, however, find it difficult
to imagine being friends
with anyone they cannot see,
let alone with God himself.
Open lesson 8
—lesson 8,
“You Can Be Jehovah’s Friend,”
and in the next video, follow along
as we see how a teacher
uses what is provided in the book
to help her students build faith
in Jehovah’s desire to be her Friend.
As we look in, they are starting to consider
the information under point 6,
“What Jehovah does for his friends.”
OK, good.
Now, Point 6,
“What Jehovah does for his friends.”
Cassie, can you tap that link
“Jehovah Has Done So Much For Me”?
When I was 14,
things that happened in the past
started to catch up with me emotionally.
And I felt like everything
that happened in my life
was my fault.
Learning from the Bible that God says
that he will take my right hand,
that he will fortify me,
that he will really help me
—it blew me away!
She mentioned a Bible passage
where Jehovah takes our hand.
Can you read that at Isaiah 41:10, 13,
please?
“Do not be afraid, for I am with you.
“Do not be anxious, for I am your God.
“I will fortify you, yes, I will help you,
I will really hold on to you
with my right hand of righteousness.”
And 13: “For I, Jehovah your God,
“am grasping your right hand,
“the One saying to you, ‘Do not be afraid.
I will help you.’”
So, Cassie,
according to these verses,
what does Jehovah promise to do
for all of his friends?
Help us when we’re down or scared.
Yes!
Let’s look a little closer, though.
“I will fortify . . . ,
“I will help . . . ,
I will really hold on . . .”
—does that sound like a Friend who can help
or a Friend who wants to help?
I never thought of God, Jehovah,
like that.
Do you think that Jehovah
would make a good Friend?
Sure.
Why?
In verse 10, Jehovah
stretches out his hand to you.
Which one?
His right.
And then in verse 13,
he takes your hand.
Which one?
My right.
How?
Cassie, come here.
So is Jehovah
beside you
holding your hand?
Or is he—
In front.
That’s it
—his right hand
taking your right hand.
He’s facing you
to pull you up and out.
Cassie, what has Jehovah
pulled you out of?
Wow!
Um,
hopelessness.
That is a direct result
of friendship with Jehovah.
It grows stronger
the more we talk to him.
Let’s look at that in the next section, OK?
What a beautiful example
of using Enjoy Life Forever!
to build faith in Jehovah!
This student, Cassie,
appeared troubled and distressed,
but the sister who is teaching her
is so compassionate and patient.
And did you notice
that the sister did not talk too much?
She just effectively used
the video, scripture, and bolded questions
to draw out the student’s feelings
and helped her to visualize
what Jehovah has promised to do for her.
Our new study book
also progressively builds faith in Jesus.
Open to section 2
—section 2—
and look at the lessons in that section
that progressively build faith in Jesus.
In lesson 15,
the student learns who Jesus is
and why learning about him is so important.
Lesson 16 outlines what Jesus did on earth
and how that affects us.
Lesson 17 explains what Jesus is like
and how we can imitate his fine qualities.
Skip down to lessons 27 and 28,
which show that Jesus’ death
proves how much Jehovah and Jesus love us.
Many people, however, do not understand
the ransom sacrifice of Jesus,
or they do not view it
as God’s personal gift to them.
But the apostle Paul
believed that with all his heart.
Open lesson 27
—lesson 27, entitled
“How Can Jesus’ Death Save Us?”
And go to point 5,
“The ransom is Jehovah’s gift to you.”
Now, you’ll notice that the read scripture
is Galatians 2:20
—Galatians 2:20, which reads:
“I am nailed to the stake
along with Christ.
“It is no longer I who live,
“but it is Christ who is living
in union with me.
“Indeed, the life that I now live
in the flesh
“I live by faith in the Son of God,
who loved me
and handed himself over for me.”
Those words should come to mind
when answering
the last review question for this lesson.
So in this next video,
see how a teacher uses the Explore feature
at the end of the lesson
to reach the heart of his skeptical student.
As we look in,
they are discussing the last review question.
OK, Gene,
the last review question is,
How can Jesus’ death benefit you?
I suppose I should say
that it means forgiveness from my sins,
but God is not going to forgive me.
What makes you feel that way?
I don’t feel; I know.
I made better choices in my business
than I did at home.
Sorry.
Gene,
scroll down to where it says “Explore”
and click under
“Can Jehovah forgive even serious sins?”
OK, got it.
Can you read the second paragraph, please?
Sure.
“Some people have committed gross sins
and wonder
“whether God can forgive them.
“Happily, the Word of God says:
“‘The blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us
“from all  sin.’
“Jehovah willingly forgives even serious sins
if we have a proper, repentant attitude.”
The blood of Jesus cleanses us from all sin.
Through the ransom, Jehovah forgives our sins
—even serious ones—
and he draws us to him.
But, Ron, why should anyone get a free pass?
Because it’s not free.
Do you see the scripture link to Isaiah 1:18?
I see it.
Can you read it, please?
“‘Come, now, and let us set matters straight
between us,’ says Jehovah.
“‘Though your sins are like scarlet,
they will be made as white as snow;
“‘though they are as red as crimson cloth,
they will become like wool.’”
So forgiveness of our sins is possible
if we “set matters straight.”
What do you, Gene,
think that means?
I need to do what’s right.
I’m trying.
Yeah, that’s good.
It also involves how we feel.
We should feel sorry.
I am.
No, that’s a good sign, Gene.
Lastly,
let Jehovah help you with the step
that’s the hardest for many of us.
He can help you forgive yourself.
Jesus died for me.
Ron, I think I’m going to need
a little more time to process this.
We all do.
Let’s go ahead and conclude with a prayer,
and we’ll specifically ask Jehovah
to strengthen your faith in the ransom
and his forgiveness.
Later, when you pray,
you can beg him for the same thing.
Thank you.
OK.
Let’s say a prayer.
Jehovah, our heavenly Father . . .
Gene needed convincing
that Jesus’ sacrifice
benefited him personally.
If not convinced of that in his heart,
he would not have the faith needed
to become Jesus’ disciple.
The brother was familiar
with the contents of the Explore section
and chose to discuss with Gene
the Watchtower  article
that could best help him.
At other times, if needed,
the teacher could give the student homework
to read an article or to watch a video
from the Explore section
and get his observations
at the next study session.
In the video,
Ron was going to pray specifically
for Jehovah to strengthen Gene’s faith
in the ransom
and in God’s forgiveness of him.
What an excellent way
to keep helping a student
to draw close to Jehovah
and build faith in God’s Word!
God’s spirit produces faith
only in people whose heart
favors the truth over lies.
Let us use Enjoy Life Forever!
to teach the truth to those
with whom we study the Bible
and to help build their faith
in Jehovah and Jesus.
And let us pray for Jehovah’s help
to reach their heart.